# HashHacks3_jsk1961998935
Our solution for Hash Hack

The main motive of our system is to provide a safer environment for women and improve response time to citizens in case of emergencies by making citizens take up vigilante roles. Also, our system helps the organisations to be supervised to see if timely actions are being taken or not, all this through an inter-linked web involving an audio-interrupt based module, blockchain, audio processing, IoT and an android application to make it all accessible.
So we are devloping:
1. An android app
2. Python code for module
3. Python code for Police interface
4. Blockchain for supervision(free demo)

 We have developed a smart and effective idea here. We would install a module that constitutes of  cameras and a microphone to be installed in some crime-prone areas. The idea will basically work at night as they are the most vulnerable time for a crime.The system will only work for human frequency, hence, making it resistant towards inhuman sources. Whenever this system will detect that somebody is yelling or shouting for help, the details such as location along with the camera feed will pop up in the nearest police station. The video feed is to check whether it's actually an emergency or not hence this would demolish the false cases too. We will also be using blockchain in this system to store the details of location, time as well as images (stored in the interval of 2 seconds) of the location so that the video feeds are not taken for granted by the authorities. The blockchain transaction would ensure that the information can't be tampered with & also would create a bit of a pressure on the police to take some serious actions in case of emergency.
The safety mode in the proposed app will get automatically enabled during night time. In case of emergency, the app will be able to detect slightest of jerks to the phone and can timely send SOS to emergency contacts. This would also be linked to the nearest police station for help and a sort of cameras at that location would be activated for better tracking of criminal. Other than that, in case of emergency, the app provides an exact location of the victim using audio signals, visual signals & wireless signals. The rescue teams can reach out to victims by detecting the flashlight. If the team is nearby they can hear the sound of alarm which is generated in emergency & if they are on the spot but cannot find the person they can get the accurate location using the bluetooth signal emitted by beacons along with sound aid. Also, nearest hospitals and police station details are always available to the user through the app. And one can also add some contacts to send SOS messages.
Not only the police, but the people near to the location of the ongoing incident get notifications of it and using the bluetooth beacons, can accurately locate the victim and help them, making the response time much faster and helping find victims faster.

This system will certainly help in increasing the safety and security of people as well as improvement in response time. 
